OK welcome back! So,
it's time to get our StarDisplay actually
reducing now, when we place defenders. So
firstly, I'm going to put my StarDisplay Script neatly away into
the folder and open up the script.
So currently, we have an AddStars method. We do
have a UsedStars method, but nothing is doing it yet.
We need to make some changes here, to make sure that the Defender
Spawner will only spawn, when there's enough stars
available. So as a summary, in this video what we're going to
be doing is
assigning a star cost to every defender.
Preventing placement until you can afford to place a defender.
We'll spend stars when the defenders are placed.
Use an enumeration to pass meaning,
rather than just Bools around. That'll make sense when we get there.
And a bit of rough play tuning. Cool! So, let's
go take a look! One of the first things we need to do is
embellish our Defender Script. At the moment, our Defender Script
is very simple and very thin and does almost nothing.
What we want to do is add the ability to tell
each defender how many stars it costs.
So I think a sensible way to do that would just be
to put a starCost variable over on the Defender.
So, we can make it public. I think that's safe enough. It's an integer,
because we can count it. And it's a starCost and I'm going to
default into 100. So now, the defenders
have a default cast of 100. Of course, defender
by defender, we can change that. If we go over into Unity, look at our
Prefabs for our Defenders.
If we look at any of them now, we will see they all have a Star
Cost, but of course, we can override that later on, when we
come to play tuning. Fantastic! That's good!
So, what other modifications do we need
to make to a defender, in order to start spending money. Well, actually nothing
at this stage. So, that's great! We've got the first
bit. Now, we need to do something with our
Start Display. Our Star Display is going to need to have the ability
to debit. So, let's go over
to the Star Display Script, after saving Defenders, and take
a look. So, what is the
messaging going to be between the Defender
Spawner, when it tries to place, and the Star
Display? How are we going to manage that? The thing that
we particularly need to manage is this UseStars.
What happens if the DefenderSpawner requests
more or less stars than are available?
We need to pass some meaning back, with this Use
Stars. And rather than just passing nothing back,
we need to somehow succeed or fail.
Now, you could have the Defender spawner say, use stars
20, and if there were 10 stars available, for instance,
then what would happen? Well, you could pass back false,
but I don't really like how that's going to read in the DefenderSpawner.
I want to pass back some actual meaning. If we are
wrapping up the idea that there are or aren't
enough stars, in a Boolean, it's not sufficiently
explicit for me. So, one way around
this is to actually create an enum, and then, we can use
that enum to pass something more
meaningful back. So, let's try this! Let's have a public
enum, public enum Status,
and then, the elements of this enum... I'm going
to use capitals, because they're kind of constants, and let's have
success or failure. So,
the possibilities, when we try and take money out
of the account, are either success or failure.
Hopefully that makes sense. Also,
we want an initial amount of money in the bank. It's going to make
life a little bit easier. So, let's start with 100 units of
sun or stars in the bank, and then, we've got this
private enum Status SUCCESS or FAILURE.
So then down here, when we look at actually using
the stars, we need to make a
modification to it. We need to say... Oops!
My track pad's a little sensitive over there. We need to
say if the number of
stars is greater than or equal to the amount we have...
So there's an amount at the top here,
being passed in. So, if
the amount of stars available is greater
or equal to the amount that we are requesting, then what do we do?
Well then, we debit the amount, we
update the display, and importantly we're going to
return
Status dot. Now, because it's a numeration, we
can choose SUCCESS OR FAILURE. So, that's at SUCCESS
condition. Now, of course the return type of
this method is no longer void but it's actually Status. So, you
can return your enum as a Status.
Fantastic! OK, so
what else could happen? If there were not enough stars
to actually do what we need to do, what are we going to return?
Well, we've just returned
Status
.FAILURE. Now, we can put it like
this, in an if statement, if we want, let's just make sure it builds.
Or we can say, because we're returning out of the if here,
we could actually save some code a little bit hardly anything.
We could get rid of the else part and just return straight back
below the if statement like that, without those brackets,
because it will only get to this line, if this statement
does not operate. Otherwise, it will jump right out of the whole
UseStars method, once it returns SUCCESS.
So, this means when we call UseStars,
it's actually going to return this, yes that worked you've got enough
and I've debited them, or it's going to return a FAILURE.
Alright, so now
comes the fun bit, and this is the bit where you get to do some work over at
the DefenderSpawner. Now, we need to modify our
DefenderSpawner, so that we can determine
whether or not we've got enough money to actually place things. And if we
haven't got enough money to place things, then we need to
somehow let the user know or just
at least do nothing. So, where about in this
method are we going to be making that change? That's the question.
And what else does this method need access to?
Well, it's going to need access to the Star
Display. It needs to look at the StarDisplay controller,
who has track of the
number of stars available and be able to ask it questions.
So, let's get hold of that. Let's do it privately. We don't need to access it
from the outside: private StarDisplay starDisplay;
There we go! And then, on the Start let's find
StarDisplay. You go ahead and do that. I'm going to wait a second, so you get a chance
to have a go yourself. It's just like the line above.
starDisplay = GameObject.Find
ObjectOfType though, because it's much
stronger than using the name. Why would you use name, and why would you use
type? Well,
it depends. Use the strongest thing you can. We're defining
Defenders by the word ("Defenders") here, because it is,
on the left hand side, just an empty GameObject in the Hierarchy,
and it doesn't have any other types. We haven't added any other
components. But in this case, when we're trying to find the Star
Display, which is nestled away here.
This Stars Display here, it actually has a script attached
to it, and a script is a much more weighty thing. We're much less likely
to accidentally change the name of the script and not
have this type in here change, so strings are dangerous.
These Defenders, if I change Defenders over here in the Hierarchy,
this script will no longer work. It won't find
Defenders, to child the new Defenders to, but if I change the name of
the script, down here this Star Display, then this
up code will update, if I use the Refactor Tool.
OK, so always use the FindObjectsOfType, if that
makes sense. So, we're going to find the things of type StarDisplay.
There's only one of them. Great! So now,
we have access to the Star
Display. Question comes now, how are are going to
actually make a decision somewhere around the MouseDown,
to decide whether or not we can afford
using that enum that's coming back from
the StarDisplay SUCCESS or FAILURE. So basically,
we try and spend the money, we try and use the stars,
based on the cost of the Defender. If it's successful,
we go ahead and place. If it fails, we don't
place. So, that's going to be your challenge, is to finish off the
changes to DefenderSpawner. You're going to have to do some refactoring.
So here it is! Spawn
and use stars, if you can afford it. Otherwise, just log ("Insufficient
stars"), and then, test that it works
properly. Go ahead pause the video,
and try and get spending of stars working alongside,
now.
OK, first thing I would do before trying to modify this script is,
to try and make it a little bit more readable. So, I'm going to factor
out these bottom three lines here, which are
basically just to do with spawning the defender, right.
So, OnMouseDown doesn't read very well yet. Let's try
refactoring, down just below,
and just call it SpawnDefender.
Now, it's actually given us
a method with two parameters. The position,
the rounded position we want to spawn it at and the defender itself.
That's absolutely fine, that's great use of the Refactor
Tool. So now, this OnMouseDown reads a bit better,
right. We calculate the world position of the mouse click.
We round it.
We decide what our defender we're going to spawn is, based on the
static Button.selectedDefender; Remember over in Button?
We have a static selectedDefender;
What that is, is it's the class level keeping
track of which of these four buttons is pressed here.
So, that's absolutely fine!
Then, we go ahead and spawn the Defender.
So now, all that remains is for us to wrap a little bit of
logic around this SpawnDefender. We don't always want to
do it. What we want to say is, if (starDisplay
.UseStars
(defenderCost).
Now, what's the defenderCost? Well, I don't know.
We'll work that out in a moment. That's something that we just don't have
yet, but let's just get the logic sorted.
OK, so
what am I saying there? if
when we call the Use
Stars method, on the StarDisplay... So, we say to the StarDisplay, let's
use a certain number of stars.
We don't have that yet, we haven't found that. I'll put that in, in a moment.
But if the result of that function
call is this
SUCCESS enum, StarDisplay
.Status.SUCCESS. You see we've made a public enum,
over in StarDisplay. if
that is SUCCESS, then we spawn the Defender.
Otherwise, what do we do? Well, I just said that we
need to log.
("Insufficient stars
to spawn");
Alright, so that's
where we're using the enum. Now, of course we need to determine what this defender cost
is, so let's just go ahead and find the defender cost. Where are we
going to get that from? It's an integer,
int defenderCost = right defender,
which we've found. We found it here, just above.
Dot what? Where is this defender
cost? Well it's on the Defender Script, right. The Defender is a GameObject,
so we need to GetComponent
<Defender>
of type Defender. It's a method so it needs the brackets (),
.starCost;
If we do that, now we have the defenderCost
in number of stars here. We call the method, starDisplay.UseStars.
For instance, it may be 10. If
we succeed, if the StarDisplay says OK
you've got enough return SUCCESS. Then, we carry on
and spawn. If we don't, we Log ("Insufficient stars to spawn");
And by doing this, we're passing proper
meaning back, from StarDisplay to the DefenderSpawner.
You could make this method a Bool,
and then, this would just read, if UseStars
blah, otherwise return an ERROR. But it's
a bit weird to just say, if StarDisplay.UseStars.
What do you mean if? I mean, we're making an assumption that
true means it succeeded and false means it didn't. That may be OK,
but it's really hard to name this UseStars
method properly, if you use that type of
Boolean. You certainly don't want to pass a string back,
so to me it makes sense. It's just another
tool in your armory, to pass an enum back right.
So, that's what we're doing here. Let's test and see if this works.
Hit play. Now, I thought I'd
set myself 100 in the bank, to start with. So, where's the Star
Display? int stars = 100! What's
probably happening is that, the Inspector value of
that is probably overriding
or the Text is overriding.
Hmm, I think what I need to do on the Star
Display is just say stars = 100;
Let's try that.
I just want something to spend, at the beginning.
Still not coming out, so why are we not getting anything in here?
Why are the stars not updating, on the Start?
I know I've got 0 in here as the Text, but
the problem is that we're never updating the display at the
top here. OK, the Update
Display(); method, and we probably don't then need stars =
100. We just weren't updating the display before.
There you go! So, we don't need stars = 100, because
the variable is properly initialized at the top. We do need to call Update
Display(); straight on the Start. Alright, let's take a look!
What are the use cases here? Firstly, we need to be able to spend,
so OK that was expensive! That defender
was too expensive! Let's set the cost of all the defenders to
10, for now. So, I'm selecting all
of the prefabs and setting their Defender Script StarCost at 10.
Let's try 10
and ahh! That's good! Now, let's put some producers down.
Now, my stones
are permanently in the Agitated state. We can sort that out
later, but let's just make sure that our
spending is working. Yes, this is more like it!
So, sun is being produced and sun is being
spent. Awesome! So, take a look back
over the code, make sure you understand how this
works and why. Let's see what scripts we've actually touched.
We haven't touched Buttons. We only briefly touched Defender,
to introduce a starCost, which is the
obvious place for it to live. It's the Defender that costs a certain number of stars.
We then left that script alone. We went over to StarDisplay,
and we did a couple of things. We made an enum,
a public enum for SUCCESS or FAILURE. And then, we
used that in the UseStars method to say, well
return SUCCESS, if there are enough stars
for the amount being requested, and return FAILURE if
there aren't. And then, in the DefenderSpawner we
factored out the SpawnDefender code here. Very
simple method. And we said if
our UseStars method is successful, spawn the
defender, otherwise put ("Insufficient stars to spawn");
So, let's make sure that, that ("Insufficient stars to spawn")
log is happening. Let's just spend everything!
It's difficult, with this much sun production! No, I
almost can't do it! Ah, I have done it! Here you go! ("Insufficient
stars to spawn") is being logged. So that completes the challenge,
that completes the video, and congratulations on getting this far!